## Inspiration
Although advances in technology have helped to spur various movements in youth education across the globe, we find that financial literacy remains an under-discussed topic in formal and informal youth education. We know that many female youth, ourselves included, often understand little about the management of personal finances, which is crucial towards achieving financial independence as an adult. By providing a simple budgeting application for such teenagers, we teach them to take control and be mindful of their spending at an early age, thus paving their way towards understanding finance management developing good money-managing habits that will last them a lifetime. 

## What it does
BUDGIE allows users to set personal budget goals and keep track of their balance, expenses, income, and budget use on a monthly basis. Users can enter in amounts of money they receive as “income”, and record various expenses associated with custom expense names. After the user enters a new transaction – ie. An income or expense – they can track the resulting changes in their total monthly balance using a check balance option. Most importantly, users can set a custom budget that can be easily modified by them if needed. Through the check budget function in BUDGIE, users who have set a valid budget can be reminded of how much their total monthly budget is, as well as how much of the current budget has been used and the amount that remains. If users exceed their stated budget, the budget check will alert them about this, in addition to indicating how much (in dollars) that they’ve exceeded their budget by. Aside from personal finance management, users can also browse the app‘s “About” and “Financial Tips” sections, which include detailed information about the app’s various functionalities and other useful beginner finance tips, including a guide to banking for youth. 

## How we built it
We created BUDGIE using python and pandas. 

## Challenges we ran into

## Accomplishments that we're proud of
Being students from different schools and backgrounds, this event provided us with a great opportunity to collaborate on a joint project for a field that we were all passionate about. We also became more proficient in Python, particularly in reading CSV files, coding loops, and writing if-else statements. 

## What we learned
As the majority of our team had little to no coding experience in Python, we found the SheHacks V workshops to be highly educational - particularly the Intro to Python workshop. Considering that this is our first hackathon, we were also able to learn a lot of coding techniques and etiquette from the more proficient members as we prepared and constructed our program.

## What's next for BUDGIE
In the future, we hope to expand the analytic ability of our program, improve the user interface to be more aesthetically appealing and friendly to younger individuals. We attempted to try to create a GUI with Tkinter, however, due to the time constraint we were unable to finish it this time! Perhaps in the future, we can look to expand it on various other platforms. We would also like to implement additional functionality which would allow the program to compute and print comparisons of a wider range of data: from individual values to the totals of the recorded budget, balance, and expenses between weeks, months, and even years. This would allow the user to better track their spending over both short-term and long-term periods of their choosing. Finally, on a larger scale, we would love to take a global approach and expand BUDGIE by offering support for a wider range of languages and currencies.  